.TH COMENQ 1 "May 2024" "comenq" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
comenq \- enqueue a GitHub pull request comment for the comenqd daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B comenq put
[
.B --now
]
.I owner/repo
.I pr-number
.I comment
.br
.B comenq list
.br
.B comenq bump
.I id
.br
.B comenq bust
.I id
.br
.B comenq del
.I id
.br
.B comenq hist
[
.B -n
.I limit
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B comenq
command manages the comment queue of the
.BR comenqd (8)
daemon.
.TP
.B put
Enqueue a comment for the given repository (in
.I owner/repo
format) and pull request.  Prints the comment's deterministic
eight-character identifier and an approximate ETA.  The ETA includes the
random flutter, which is fixed when the comment is enqueued.  By default
the comment waits one full cooldown (plus its flutter) from enqueue even
when the queue is idle; pass
.B --now
to post as soon as the queue allows.
.TP
.B list
Print the schedule of pending comments: identifier, ETA, target pull
request, and the comment text collapsed to a single line of at most 60
characters.
.TP
.B bump
Move the identified comment to the head of the queue.
.TP
.B bust
Move the identified comment to the tail of the queue.
.TP
.B del
Remove the identified comment from the queue.
.TP
.B hist
Print the posting-history log, oldest first: identifier, age, status (
.I ok
or
.IR FAIL ),
the first eight characters of the posting token's hash, target
.IR owner/repo#pr ,
and the comment text collapsed to a single line of at most 60 characters.
Failed attempts also show a one-line description of the error. If nothing
has been recorded, prints a message saying so.
.RS
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-limit " " \fIlimit\fP
Show only the most recent
.I limit
records, still printed oldest first. By default the whole log is printed.
.RE
.PP
Use
.B --socket
(or the
.B COMENQ_SOCKET
environment variable) to override the Unix Domain Socket path used to
contact the daemon.  By default the client tries
.I $XDG_RUNTIME_DIR/comenq/comenq.sock
(a user-hosted daemon) and then
.I /run/comenq/comenq.sock
(the packaged system service), connecting to the first socket that
accepts.  A stale socket file left behind by a daemon that exited without
unlinking it is skipped rather than shadowing a healthy daemon.
.SH EXAMPLES
Send a comment to pull request 42 of example/repo, then inspect the queue:
.PP
.RS
.nf
comenq put example/repo 42 "Queued for review"
comenq list
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR comenqd (8)
