.TH COMENQD 8 "May 2024" "comenqd" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
comenqd \- daemon that posts queued GitHub pull request comments
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B comenqd
[
.B --config
.I file
]
[
.B --github-token
.I token
]
[
.B --github-token-file
.I file
]
[
.B --socket-path
.I path
]
[
.B --queue-path
.I path
]
[
.B --cooldown-period-seconds
.I seconds
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B comenqd
daemon consumes comment requests queued by the
.BR comenq (1)
CLI and posts them to GitHub.  Configuration is loaded from
.I /etc/comenqd/config.toml
and may be overridden through command line options or
environment variables prefixed with
.BR COMENQD_.
.PP
The GitHub token may be given inline via
.B github_token
or read from a file named by
.BR github_token_file .
The file is read at startup and its trimmed contents take precedence.  A
leading \fB${VAR}\fR placeholder in the path is expanded from the
environment, so a systemd unit using
.B LoadCredential=token:...
can reference \fB${CREDENTIALS_DIRECTORY}/token\fR.
.PP
The cooldown between comment posts is set by
.B cooldown_period_seconds
and may be lengthened by a random flutter of up to
.B cooldown_flutter_seconds
after each post; the full cooldown always elapses.
.PP
The daemon may run as a system service using the packaged systemd unit,
or as a per-user service (\fBsystemd --user\fR) using the
.I comenqd-user.service
example.  For user sessions the socket defaults to
.IR $XDG_RUNTIME_DIR/comenq/comenq.sock .
When launched manually it logs its effective socket and
queue locations to the terminal.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/comenqd/config.toml
Default configuration file.
.TP
.I /var/lib/comenq/queue
On-disk queue storage used for persistence across restarts.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR comenq (1)
